[DOC] KafkaConnector resources (#2338)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/kafkaconnectors/proc-deploying-kafkaconnector.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-kafka-connect.adoc

[id='proc-deploying-kafkaconnector-{context}']
= Deploying a `KafkaConnector` resource to Kafka Connect

> Deploy the example `KafkaConnector` to a Kafka Connect cluster. The example YAML file is configured to create a `FileStreamSourceConnector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy the example `KafkaConnector` to a Kafka Connect cluster. The example YAML file is configured to create a `FileStreamSourceConnector` to send each line of the Kafka LICENSE file as a message in Kafka.
```

> Deploy the example `KafkaConnector` to a Kafka Connect cluster. The example YAML file is configured to create a `FileStreamSourceConnector` to send each line of the Kafka license file as a message in Kafka.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy the example `KafkaConnector` to a Kafka Connect cluster. The example YAML will create a `FileStreamSourceConnector` to send each line of the license file to Kafka as a message in the topic called `my-topic`.
```

> Deploy the example `KafkaConnector` to a Kafka Connect cluster. The example YAML file is configured to create a `FileStreamSourceConnector` to send each line of the Kafka license file as a message in Kafka.

Reviewer 2: This is the first time we talk about an example. Maybe we could mention in the **KafkaConnector resources** section that one is provided?  (_the_ example sounds like the reader knows about it)

.Prerequisites

* A Kafka Connect deployment in which xref:proc-enabling-kafkaconnectors-deployment-configuration-kafka-connect[`KafkaConnectors` are enabled]
* A running Cluster Operator

.Procedure

. Edit the `examples/connector/source-connector.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1alpha1
kind: `KafkaConnector`
metadata:
  name: my-source-connector <1>
  labels:   
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-connect-cluster <2>
spec:
  class: org.apache.kafka.connect.file.FileStreamSourceConnector <3>
  tasksMax: 2 <4>

>   Config: <5>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  config: <5>
```

    file: "/opt/kafka/LICENSE"

>     topic: my-topic

Reviewer 3: Can we add also a simple Sink connector example?

Author: Sure. Is there somewhere I can borrow one from?

Reviewer: @scholzj the example given comes from the `examples` directory. The source connector example is weak enough (reading the licence into a topic) and I didn't do a sink connector example because that would be even more weird – let's just go filling the connect filesystem with some arbitrary data read from a topic. We're basically teaching users stuff which they shouldn't be doing.

I wonder if we should provide your echo connectors in https://github.com/strimzi/client-examples. That way at least the examples wouldn't be so confusing for users.

Reviewer 3: @tombentley Well, I guess to make it work in the examples, we would need to bundle it with our Kafka images. I don't have problem with it, if we want to do that, I can get it pushed to Maven Central and we can pull it in 3rd party libs. Alternatively, we could move it under Strimzi, but I would probably prefer separate repo to make it easy to push it to Maven.

Reviewer: Whatever works easiest suits me.

    # ...
----
+

> <1> Enter a name for the `KafkaConnector` resource. You can choose any name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Enter a name for the `KafkaConnector` resource. This will also be the name of the connector within Kafka Connect. You can choose any name that's valid for a Kubernetes resource.
```

<2> Enter the name of the Kafka Connect cluster in which to create the connector.

> <3> The name or alias of the connector class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The name or alias of the connector class. This should be present in the image being used by the names Kafka Connect cluster.
```

> <4> The maximum number of tasks for the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> The maximum number of tasks that the connector can create.
```

<5> Configuration settings for the connector. Available configuration options depend on the connector class.

. Create the `KafkaConnector` in your Kubernetes cluster:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
----

> oc apply -f examples/connector/source-connector.yaml

Reviewer 2: Can we verify success?

Author: Added a verification step.

oc get all --selector strimzi.io/cluster: my-connect-cluster -o name

----

.Additional resources

* xref:proc-enabling-kafkaconnectors-deployment-configuration-kafka-connect[] 

> * xref:kafka-connect-{context}[] 

Reviewer 2: Not sure this one is needed?

* xref:type-KafkaConnect-reference[] 

> * xref:type-KafkaConnectS2I-reference[] 

Reviewer 2: I wonder is links to these would be better in the prereqs? To get an understanding of what you can configure.
